# Introduction
The game has two major approaches to how text is printed to screen. The first is a dynamic function for printing stored text data, by generating graphics from uncompressed 8x16 and 16x16 font characters. It runs on the Sega CD 68000 processor. The second is a ordinary graphics function which uses Kosinski-compressed graphics data with just the specific characters required and a pre-generated tilemap/tile pattern/nametable and runs on the Sega Mega Drive 68000. Pre-generated text graphics are used for more static parts of menus, while the dynamic font character lookup function is used for all other text (dialog etc.), but confusingly also for parts of the menu. For example a question prompt will be generated by the dynamic function, while the "yes/no" text is generated by a static tilemap. 

# Dynamic text function

The game has a large Japanese font set stored from 0x29000 in _000PRG.DAT as 16x16 1bpp solid data. It includes about 1500 Kanji. The fonts are not in SJIS or any obvious computer system order, however the first few hundred follow an older Japanese school teaching system order. It seems the game contains several Kanji which are not very common in Japan, due to the manga having a plot related to China, and these are in what seems a random order towards the end.

There is a very limited set of 8x16 font chracters from 29C00. It contains only 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, (blank space), E (signifies equipped item), (, ), (comma) and (punctuation mark). In the script format these start with 0xB0. If these character values are encountered, a text function adds a prefix which signifies that the character is to be rendered as 8x16. This function can be manipulated, so that also other character values outside this very limited scope are rendered as 8x16. Hiragana characters have values identical to the ASCII alphabeth encoding, and can be replaced with the relevant latin alphabet characters.

The dynamic text function runs on the Sega CD 68000 processor. The exact reasoning is unknown, but possibly due to it being more powerful (12,5 Mhz). Though the function does not involve any (heavier) decompression.

# Static text graphics

Static text graphics are found in several menus. They can be difficult to spot, as they use the same font as the dynamically generated text. Usually they are more static menu choices, including:

* "yes/no" popup when asked questions in the ordinary dialog.
* "Load/New game" menu when starting the game
* Menu choices in the Backup RAM interface (though not longer text strings)

The graphics are stored within _000PRG.DAT using Kosinski-compression (LZ), which is well documented. They are decompressed using the Sega Mega Drive 68000, and then a tilemap is applied. The tilemap is also stored in _000PRG.DAT, but is not compressed. Several tiles may be reused, for example one character is used in several menu choices. You cannot simply decompress the data and get the menu graphics, but need to apply a tilemap.

Translating the static text graphics should be fairly straightforward, just by decompressing, modifying and recompressing graphics. Probably some modification of the tilemap may be needed, either to expand menu graphics or due to shared tiles of Japanese characters not matching with Latin ones.

# Text boxes

Text boxes, or graphics frames, are loaded by the function at 0x9a54 (in memory) located in _000PRG.DAT (0x2854), lets call it "QueueGfxLoadByIndex" for now. The function argument in register D0 selects the textbox size and position to use and reads a nametable with graphics tiles. Text box grapics should already have been decompressed to memory, and can include standard border graphics and static text fonts, or specific border/font graphics. If the text box contains different items to select, selection and functions to run are handled elsewhere. Textboxes can be empty, to be filled by the Dynamic text function, or with static text or other graphics.

* 0x00 Standard full width, four lines high textbox used for dialogue.
* 0x01 Item sub-menu?
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3e6a0 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x02 Status screen portraits (left side)
* 0x03 Yes/no popup
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3e000 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x05 Status screen stats (right side)
* 0x06 In-game menu "mode" sub-selection
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3e000 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x07 Main in-game menu
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3e000 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x09 Equipment sub-menu ? (using custom static text graphics)
* 0x11 Main battle dialogue menu
* 0x0A Equipment stats (right side)
* 0x0D Character portrait frame
* 0x23 Used for the Backup RAM screen
  * Top textbox showing Internal Backup RAM or RAM Cart being used
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3fe8e and 0x4025e in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x24 Used for the Backup RAM screen
  * Middle text box showing save file names
* 0x25 Used for the Backup RAM screen
* 0x26 Used for the Backup RAM screen (check, shows menu options).
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x3fe8e and 0x4025e in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x29 Text box used for the Load / Start new game menu.
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x424b0 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x2A Expanded text box for the Load / Start new game menu, including static text for a "music mode" (音楽モード) and mysterious "???" option.
  * Uses static text tiles found Kosinski compressed at 0x424b0 in_000PRG.DAT
* 0x2C Used for the Backup RAM screen
* 0x2E Techinque application sub screen
